Not now! Look!
ALL:
Dabo!
( laughing )
You aren't leaving?
Well...
Come on, aren't
you feeling lucky?
All right then,
one more time.
Let it ride.
( dabo table buzzes )
Oh...
karjinko.
Sorry.
Uh, wait
a minute there.
My name is Okalar.
What's yours?
Busy.
You are evil.
Who? Me?
He was going to
walk away a winner.
First rule of dabo is...
BOTH:
...Watch the wheel,
not the girl.
So, what's on the
menu tomorrow night?
Tomorrow night?
Dinner with your father.
What?
He didn't tell you?
He came by this afternoon
and invited me to dinner
tomorrow night.
In fact, he said
it was your idea.
My idea?
Oh, I, I, I guess I might
have mentioned something
about having you over.
I, I thought he forgot.
It is all right,
isn't it?
I mean, you don't
mind, do you?
Oh, no.
No, of course not.
It'll be great.
You're going to love
my dad's cooking.
This is a surprise.
A pleasant one,
I hope.
So do I.
I have some salvage
for you, Quark.
This isn't a good time to be
selling your kind of salvage.
No, no, no, it's
perfectly legal.
I mean, it's really
salvage this time.
I'm not looking
for junk right now,
but...
I'm more in the market
for entertainment.
I think you'll like
this junk, Quark.
It's a wreckage from
a ship that crashed
in the Gamma Quadrant.
You're still going
to the Gamma Quadrant?
Mm-hmm.
( chuckles )
I love bold women.
How much?
Three bars of latinum
and you can have it all.
What kind of ship is it?
I don't know.
Can I see it first?
There's no time.
Oh...
Quark, you and I have been
doing business for years.
Don't you trust me?
Three bars of latinum?
( sighs )
It was worth it.
( chuckles )
( baby wailing )
No.
( latch clicking )
( lock releasing )
( wailing grows louder )
No.
( baby cooing )
You bought a child?
I just thought that I was
buying some wreckage.
How was I supposed to know
there was a baby in there?
Maybe you should
inspect the merchandise
before you make the deal,
or isn't there a Rule
of Acquisition for that?
There is and I do, usually.
We haven't been able to
trace the Boslic captain
since she left the station.
Her flight plan said
she was headed for Risa,
but I don't think we should
put much faith in that.
Well, I haven't been able
to identify his species,
but he seems to be healthy.
Seems?
For a humanoid,
he has
an incredibly fast
metabolic rate.
The cells in his body
are dividing at a pace
I haven't seen
outside of a laboratory.
But, since there are no thyroid
or hypothalmic problems,
I assume that this
is only natural
for someone of his species,
but I would like him here
for further tests.
Very well.
What do we know about
the ship the boy was on?
Chief O'Brien
just started
to analyze the wreckage.
We should have
a preliminary report
in a couple of hours.
Ah, uh, now wait a minute.
I paid good money
for that wreckage and...
and now it's yours.
Enjoy.
Hmm.
Hi there.
DAX:
We should contact
one of the orphanages
on Bajor and let them know
we might have
someone for them.
Hmm?
I was talking
about an orphanage.
Oh, right.
Have Major Kira make the
appropriate arrangements.
Will you keep me informed
about him?
Yes, sir.
What?
You are positively glowing.
Oh, come on.
I haven't seen that look
on your face since...
Since Jake stopped
wearing diapers.
I never thought
I'd hear myself
saying this,
but I miss taking
care of Jake
when he was a baby.
I miss holding him,
singing to him at night,
feeding him.
Listening to him cry,
changing his diapers,
worrying when he was sick.
I haven't forgotten.
But there are times
when I would give
almost anything
for the days when I
could make Jake happy
just by lifting
him over my head.
Good night.
( door opening )
Hey, how about a hug
for the old man?
Why didn't you tell me
you were going to
invite Mardah to dinner?
Well, I did, weeks ago.
I told you if you
didn't invite her soon,
I'd invite her myself.
I, I still wish you'd given me
a little more warning.
Well, I didn't realize
that a dinner invitation
required so much warning.
It doesn't, and it's not
a problem or anything.
It just caught me by surprise.
Well, dinner isn't
until tomorrow night.
That'll give you
a full day to prepare her
for the traumatic experience of
having dinner with the old man.
Yeah.
Uh, I mean, there's
nothing to prepare for.
It's just dinner.
Exactly.
Right.
All right.
You wanted to
see me, Doctor?
Yes, it's about
our new visitor.
Is something wrong
with the baby?
No, but he's not
a baby anymore.
BASHIR:
There are a great many species
with what we would call
accelerated growth rates,
but they're usually
small, physiologically
simple creatures.
I've never seen such
a rapid maturation process
in anything as complex
as a humanoid.
He looks about eight
or nine years old.
But how old is
he in reality?
Well, judging by his
cellular kinetic profile,
I'd say he's no more
than two weeks of age.
Who are you?
I'm Benjamin
and that's Julian.
Do you have a name?
I need food.
With your kind of metabolism,
I'm not surprised.
I'll get you something
in a few minutes.
Where am I?
SISKO:
On a space station.
Do you know what that is?
No.
But I want to learn.
I'd say we have a lot
to learn from each other.
Um...
I'll be right back.
Advanced language skills.
And cognitive reasoning.
He didn't just
pick those up
by sitting there
listening to us.
This is either a natural
ability in his species
or some kind of
basic intelligence
implanted into his
genetic structure.
Implanted?
You mean artificially?
Yes, and I tend to discount
the possibility
that it is
a natural ability.
His biomolecular
diffusion gradient
all ready suggests that
his cellular mitosis
has been artificially
enhanced.
So, you're saying
he may have been part
of some experiment?
Possibly. If so,
he's an example
of some very advanced
genetic engineering.
His cognitive abilities
are developing
without any
external stimuli.
I want you to test
his mental abilities.
See if they increase.
Maybe he'll
get to the point
where he can
tell us who he is
and where he's come from.
This is where Quark
said he found the boy.
It seems to be some
kind of stasis chamber
that was damaged
in the crash.
That could imply
they didn't want him
to begin maturing
while he was on board.
What about the rest
of the wreckage?
It seems to indicate
this was some kind of freighter
or transport vessel.
Did you find
any computers
or other information
systems?
No, not yet.
Most of it's just junk--
twisted bulkheads,
burnt deck plating,
that sort of thing.
We should have
a full inventory
by tomorrow morning.
Good.
By the way,
the replicators
in my quarters are
on the blink again.
Could you spare someone
this afternoon to fix them?
Oh, that's right.
Tonight's the big dinner
with Mardah.
You know about that?
Well, Jake mentioned it
this morning.
In fact, I'd say it's
the only thing on his mind.
You would think I was going
to court-martial her
by the way he's acting.
Well, I guess
it's only natural.
Bringing a girl home
for the first time
is a pretty traumatic
experience.
Quark may call her
a dabo girl,
but she's 20 years old.
She's a woman.
And Jake is a 16-year-old boy.
It has to stop.
Well, why did you
invite her over?
If you don't mind my asking.
Curiosity mostly.
I wanted to see
what I was up against.
What if it turns out
you like her?
She's a dabo girl.
She's dating my son.
I don't want to like her.
Sixteen years old
and dating a dabo girl.
Godspeed, Jake.
Major.
Odo.
For you.
Ah.
Let me guess--
uh, decoration for
my new quarters.
Just a little something
to brighten your room.
That's, uh, very...
thoughtful of you.
You're welcome.
( sighs )
I suppose you'd like
to see my new quarters.
Everyone wants
to see your quarters.
It's called curiosity.
Ah.
( sighs )
It's not really
finished yet.
This is just the start.
The start of what?
I want to make this room
into a place
where I can explore
what it truly means
to be a shape-shifter.
I thought it had to be
something like that.
I mean, you don't
exactly need
an entire set of quarters
just to sit in your bucket.
I don't use
the bucket anymore.
I've kept it to remind
me of how I used to be.
But now, when I need
to regenerate,
I simply revert to my gelatinous
state anywhere in this room.
Here, I can experiment with
different shapes, textures.
I can bring
in various forms to emulate.
And I can do it in private.
I'm sorry if I intruded.
Maybe I should leave.
No, please.
You're always welcome here,
Major.
Well...
where should we put it?
Ah!
Perfect.
The boy's DNA sequence
has definitely been altered.
The nucleotide analysis
proves that conclusively.
So he's a product
of genetic engineering.
But why?
Was he a unique experiment
or is this sort of thing
common in his species?
There's more.
His blood chemistry
shows that he's missing
a key isogenic enzyme,
and without large
quantities of it,
his circulatory system
would simply shut down.
Can you replicate
this enzyme?
I've been trying, and
I think I've come up
with a temporary
substitute.
But what I don't
understand is
why anybody would want to
genetically engineer someone
with such an obvious flaw.
Nurse Hortak to Dr. Bashir.
You're needed in
the Infirmary immediately.
On my way.
Listen, it's all right.
No one's going to hurt you.
Let's just go back
inside and, and...
( groans )
( crowd gasps )
Security
to Promenade!
Stop!
Stay where you are!
Dax to Sisko.
SISKO:
Go ahead.
I think we've
solved the mystery
of our young
visitor, Benjamin.
He's a Jem'Hadar.
SISKO:
I've just spoken with
Starfleet Command.
They want to make sure
he's healthy
enough to travel
and then send him
to Starbase 201,
where he'll
be handed over
to a team
of specialists.
KIRA:
Sounds good to me.
The sooner, the better.
What sort
of specialists
are we talking
about, Commander?
There will be a complete
team of xenobiologists
and exopsychologists
waiting for him.
So they're going
to study him
like a laboratory
specimen.
Well, he'll be
very well treated.
So he'll be
a well-treated specimen.
I have to agree
with Odo, Commander.
We can't just
ship him off
like some biological
sample that we've found.
He's a sentient
life form.
True, but the Founders
could have removed
his sense of free will.
He may be nothing more
than a genetically
programmed killing machine.
I agree, and we don't want
one of them walking
around this station.
Fine!
If you want answers
about the Jem'Hadar,
I'm the one who can
find them for you.
Let me get to know him.
I'll be responsible
for his conduct while he's here.
Odo, do you really think
you can control him?
He's already shown
a certain deference to me.
That's probably another
genetic alteration implanted
by the Founders to ensure
the Jem'Hadar's loyalty.
I can keep him
from harming anyone.
I'd like to speak with
the Constable in private
for a moment, please.
( door opens, closes )
Talk to me, Odo.
Tell me what's
really going on here.
What the Founders
did to the boy--
to all the Jem'Hadar--
is not your fault.
Maybe not.
But I feel an obligation
to undo some of the damage
that my race
has done to this boy.
And I also know what it's like
to be a specimen
in a laboratory.
Oh, I'm sure they'll
treat him very well.
No one will risk
harming their new prize.
They'll be courteous, caring,
treat him
like he's among friends,
but in the end, he'll be
just another specimen to them--
something to be analyzed
and catalogued.
Give me the chance to find out
if he really is just
a programmed killing machine,
or if we can help him
become something else.
( sighs )
I'll tell Starfleet
we have some
preliminary tests
to run before we send
him to Starbase 201.
Thank you, Commander.
Just... be careful, Odo.
He is still a Jem'Hadar.
BASHIR:
Listen to me!
I'm trying to help.
Your body is craving
a certain
chemical compound.
That is why you're
feeling anxious
and having
muscle spasms.
There's nothing
wrong with me.
Yes, there is,
and denying it
won't make it go away.
Leave me alone!
You can wait outside.
I think everything
is under control now.
Please...
sit down.
You don't
look well.
How do you feel?
Something's wrong with me.
I feel sick
when I eat.
I have pains
in my head...
in my chest.
His body's addicted
to a specific isogenic enzyme.
Right now, he's experiencing
all the symptoms of withdrawal.
Addicted?
That's right.
Can you replicate
this enzyme?
BASHIR:
I've had some success
with triglycerides
but they're just
a stopgap measure.
I can't get an exact
chemical formula
without doing further tests
but he's shown certain
resistance to that idea.
I don't want any more tests.
Dr. Bashir is
trying to help you.
You should let him.
You may run your tests.
My name is Odo.
I don't have a name.
When your tests
are done,
I can get you
out of here,
maybe show you
around the station.
If you wish.
What do you want?
Do you have any needs
or desires of your own?
I want to fight!
Who, me?
No.
The others.
Why?
I don't know, but that's
what I want to do.
Is that wrong?
Well, let's just say,
we need to find
other interests
for you to pursue.
For the moment,
why don't you relax?
Try not to be so tense.
Take it easy.
Smile.
A smile.
You know...
Well, we'll
work on that.
Smells good.
What is it?
Ah, shrimp Creole
with Mandalay sauce--
one of my
father's recipes.
You're going to love this.
I hope you like
spicy food.
This sure
has a bite.
So, Mardah, tell me
a little about yourself.
What do you
want to know?
Oh, anything.
Family.
There isn't much to tell.
It's a pretty
familiar story.
Parents killed
during the occupation.
Raised by my neighbors
until I was 13.
Then I moved out
on my own.
I have a sister and
a brother on Bajor,
but we haven't
talked in years.
Why not?
Sarjeno and Koran
were not exactly thrilled
when I told them I had a job
as a dabo girl.
Then I told them
what I thought
of their lives,
and we stopped speaking.
I see.
It's amazing
how some people will judge you
based on nothing more
than your job.
Did I mention that Mardah's
quite a writer?
Uh, really?
Yeah, Mrs. O'Brien
used to say that Mardah
should try to get some
of her stories published.
Jake, they aren't that good.
Yes, they are.
Nothing like your poetry.
You don't have
enough faith
in yourself.
Poetry... you write poetry?
Well, sort of.
N-not really.
Now who
doesn't have
enough faith
in themselves?
He writes some of
the most beautiful things
I have ever read.
That's what won me over.
His poetry?
And the way
he plays dom-jot.
( giggles )
You play dom-jot?
MARDAH:
Oh, your son can play.
He's quite the hustler.
A hustler?
Why don't I go see
how dessert's coming?
( laughs nervously )
Jake seemed like just
another teenage boy at first...
but there's more to him
than that.
I'm beginning
to realize that myself.
I care about him very much.
And so do I.
Now, tell me more
about my poet-hustler son.
O'BRIEN:
It's over here.
This is it.
We tried to run
an analysis of it,
but the computer
couldn't make heads
or tails of it.
Do you really think
this is the drug
the boy's addicted to?
It seems logical
that the Founders
would have kept
a supply
of the enzyme
aboard his ship.
Hopefully, Dr. Bashir can
determine if this is it.
Uh-huh. I still
don't understand
why they would
engineer someone
to be addicted
to a certain chemical.
I suspect it's another way
of ensuring the loyalty
of the Jem'Hadar
to the Founders.
If your soldiers are
addicted to a drug
that can't be replicated
and only you can provide,
that gives you a great
deal of control over them.
Seems a pretty
cold-blooded thing to do.
My people don't
have blood, Chief.
BASHIR:
I believe this tube
intravenously delivers
the chemical agent
into the carotid artery.
How large a dose is required?
I'm not sure yet.
This supply could last
for a week or maybe
a month or even a year.
I have to experiment
to find the right dosage.
All right. We'll start with
two milligrams per minute.
Let me know if you
feel uncomfortable.
Well, his heart rate
is slowing.
Some increase in
neurotransmitter activity.
And his cortical
impulse readings
are leveling out.
Let's try 3cc's.
I think we can
hold it there for now.
How do you feel?
Good.
Thank you.
You should rest now.
We'll talk later.
I'll be in my quarters.
Wait.
I want to go with you.
No, the doctor
will take care of you.
I want to stay with you.
He doesn't have
to stay here,
as long as I can monitor
his condition regularly.
Well, it seems I have
my first houseguest.
So you can change
into any of these objects?
With varying
degrees of success.
Some forms are more difficult
to emulate than others.
Like what?
Like this one.
As you can see,
I haven't mastered
the humanoid face.
I found it to be
quite challenging.
Why do you want to look
like a humanoid?
You're better than they are.
You're a changeling.
That doesn't make me better...
just different.
But I know...
in here...
that I am inferior to you.
But everyone else here
is inferior to me.
No. That may be
what your instincts tell you,
but it's not true.
No one on
this station
is better than
anyone else.
We're all equal.
Then I must be at fault,
because I know
that you cannot be wrong.
The first thing we
have to establish
is that I'm not
infallible.
I'm no different than
you are in that respect.
You have to begin
to think for yourself,
to make decisions
based on what you want,
not what I want.
Do you understand?
Now tell me.
What do you want right now?
No, don't think about it.
Just tell me
the first thing
that comes to mind.
I...
I want...
I want to know more
about my people.
Who I am and where I come from.
I can understand that.
I was also found by aliens.
I didn't know who I was
or what my people were like.
Did you ever find them?
Yes.
But...
sometimes, the truth
is not very pleasant.
Computer...
display Bridge Security
Log, USS Defiant,
stardate 48214.5,
time index 310.
( grunts, blows landing )
These are my people?
Yes.
They're a race
of brutal warriors.
But that doesn't mean
you have to be like that.
You can channel your feelings
of aggression in other ways.
How?
Computer, run
program Odo One.
So this is not
a real person?
That's right.
He can't be injured
or killed.
He's just a computer
simulation.
How strong is he?
As strong as you
want to make him.
The computer
will adjust
his strength,
agility, speed--
anything you want.
In here, you can
indulge yourself.
You can let your
instincts take over.
Fight until you're
ready to stop,
but at a price.
Out there, you have
to control yourself.
You have to
learn restraint.
Learn how to live peacefully
among other races,
regardless of
how you may feel.
Learn to contain your feelings
of aggression and violence.
Can I?
( grunts )
( grunting )
Can I do it again?
Can I have
a stronger opponent?
Computer, increase difficulty
to level two.
It's too easy!
Make it more difficult!
Computer,
increase to level three.
( grunting and groaning
continues )
Can I speak to you
for a moment?
Computer,
increase to level five!
I heard you let him
move in with you.
It was his idea.
He feels safer
with me around.
Well, of course
he does, Odo.
He was programmed
to feel that way.
No, it's more
than that.
I think I've begun
to form a real
connection with him.
He trusts me.
But can you trust him?
How long do you think
you're going to be
able to control him?
I'm not trying
to control any...
anybody.
I'm just trying to give
him some choices
other than becoming
a laboratory specimen
or a Jem'Hadar soldier.
I never thought I would
say this to you, Odo,
but you are listening
to your heart, not your head.
That boy was created
in a laboratory.
His body, his mind,
his instincts are all designed
to do one thing-- to kill.
My body, mind and instincts
were designed to be a Founder.
You were trained
to be a terrorist,
but each of us chose
to be something different.
I just want to give him
the same chance we've had.
All right.
Give him a chance.
Just don't forget
he is a Jem'Hadar.
He's dangerous.
I'm well aware
of the risk, Major.
I hope so.
( grunting )
ODO:
Computer,
end program.
( panting )
Everyone keeps
looking at me.
They're afraid of me.
They're mostly curious,
but they're also afraid.
They should be.
I could kill
any of them.
Is that all you can
think about, killing?
Isn't there anything
else you care about?
I don't think so.
( sighs )
There is so much more
to life than that.
So much more for you
to discover and experience.
Maybe there is, for you.
And maybe there is for all
of these other people here,
but for me...
Sisko to Odo.
Go ahead, Commander.
I need to see you
in my office, Constable.
On my way.
Wait for me in our quarters.
Something's wrong.
Starfleet is sending
the USS Constellation
to pick up the boy...
( sighs )
and then take him
to Starbase 201.
They'll be here
in five hours.
I thought we had
an agreement.
I'm sorry, Odo.
Starfleet considers the boy
a top priority.
I did everything I could,
but orders are orders.
I put...
You're not sending me anywhere.
What do you want?
A runabout.
To go where?
That's not your concern.
Listen to me, this
is not the way.
I know what I'm doing.
I'm leaving this place,
and you're going with me.
You don't belong here
any more than I do.
All right.
It won't be necessary
to hurt anyone.
Commander Sisko
will see to it that no one
interferes with us.
If they do, I'll kill them.
Where are we going?
To the Gamma Quadrant.
It's where my people are.
It's where your
people are.
It's where
we both belong.
I don't belong there.
I don't believe
you do either.
I won't allow them to
put me in a laboratory.
I won't go with
them to Starfleet.
All right, but there
are other options
besides going to
the Gamma Quadrant.
We can find a place
where neither Starfleet
nor the Jem'Hadar
will bother you.
A place where you can grow
and learn about yourself
without worrying about being
sent to some laboratory.
It's a big galaxy.
All we have to do is head out
for unexplored space
and keep on going.
I am willing to do this
with you.
To help start you
on your new life,
if that's what you want.
You just don't
understand, do you?
I want to be
with my people.
I don't want to be
anywhere else.
I'm not like these
other humanoids.
I'm a Jem'Hadar,
and that's what I want to be.
You're not like these
other humanoids either,
but they've done
something to you.
They filled your mind
with ideas,
with these beliefs.
I don't know what the other
changelings are like,
but I know
they're not like you.
No...
they're not.
Spread out,
but remember not to fire
until you hear my command
or the boy fires first.
This is as far as you go.
Let us go, Commander.
I'm leaving of
my own accord.
I'll take the boy
back to his people,
then return
in the runabout.
If he boards the Constellation
when it arrives,
he'll either kill a lot
of innocent people
or be killed himself.
What makes you think
he'll let you come back?
I don't believe he could
injure a changeling.
When the Constellation arrives,
I'll tell them that I couldn't
stop you from leaving.
That I would have had to kill
the boy to keep him here.
Admiral Nechayev
won't like that answer,
but it has the virtue
of being the truth.
Sisko to O'Brien.
Release the security fields
around the airlock, Chief.
O'BRIEN:
Aye, sir.
I'll see you
when you get back.
He was afraid of me.
I could see the fear
in his eyes.
Commander Sisko
was trying to do
what's best for you.
He was trying to help you.
He's not my friend.
He's my enemy!
And I now know
that anyone
who is not a Jem'Hadar
is my enemy.
Does that include me?
SISKO:
Station Log, supplemental.
Starfleet has expressed
disappointment
over what it considers
a "missed opportunity"
to learn more
about the Jem'Hadar.
However, I'm happy to report
that, with the boy gone,
life on the station
has returned to normal.
( buzz of conversation )
O'BRIEN:
I think we can get
the upper sensor grid
back on line by morning.
SISKO:
Good. We're going to need it
in the next few days.
I thought you were going
to lower the boom
on those two.
Well, I was, but
some things came up
at dinner
I didn't expect.
Oh. Got to know her
a little better?
Decided you liked her
after all?
No, actually, I got to know
Jake a little better.
Have you ever played
dom-jot with him?
No.
Don't.
Major.
About the boy.
You were right.